<!--?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?-->
<!-- We have to comment out the DTD to run, but use it to validate when editing -->
<!--
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
-->
<html>
    <head>
        <title>Human subjects data</title>
        <style type="text/css">
            div#ds-body { margin: 0px 0px 0px 0px;padding-right: 10px; top: 165px;}

            #hsd-identifiers {
                font-family: "Trebuchet MS", Arial, Helvetica, sans-serif;
                border-collapse: collapse;
                width: 100%;
            }

            #hsd-identifiers td, #hsd-identifiers th {
                border: 1px solid #ddd;
                padding: 8px;
            }

            #hsd-identifiers th {
                padding-top: 12px;
                padding-bottom: 12px;
                text-align: left;
                background-color: #4CAF50;
                color: white;
            }
        </style>
    </head>
    <body>
        <div id="ds-body">
            <h1 class="ds-div-head">Human subjects data</h1>
            <div class="ds-static-div primary">
                <p>Data archived in Dryad are publicly available,
                and any human subjects data must be properly anonymized and prepared under applicable legal and ethical guidelines.
                When de-identifying your data, both direct and indirect identifiers need to be considered.
                <strong>Dryad does not allow any direct identifiers, but a dataset may contain up to 3 indirect identifiers</strong>.
                Direct identifiers include variables such as participant’s name, initials, email, and postal code;
                indirect identifiers are data that if combined might lead to identification (see below).</p>

                <p><strong>Note:</strong> While every submission is evaluated by our curation team and we provide guidance for researchers to follow,
                the researchers themselves are responsible for ensuring that data do not contain information which identifies,
                or which can be used in conjunction with other publicly available information to personally identify,
                any individual (see <a href="http://datadryad.org/pages/policies">Dryad’s Terms of Service</a>).</p>

                <h2>Tips for preparing human subjects data for Dryad</h2>
                <ul class="text-list" style="margin-bottom: 10px;">
                    <li>Ensure that there are no direct identifiers.</li>
                    <li>Limit indirect identifiers. (Dryad allows a maximum of 3.)</li>
                    <li>Remove any nonessential identifying details.</li>
                    <li>Aggregate data – variables which may be potentially revealing, e.g., age, can be grouped.</li>
                    <li>Reduce the precision of a variable – e.g., 
                        remove day and month from year of birth; 
                        use county instead of city; 
                        add or subtract a small, randomly chosen number.</li>
                    <li>Restrict the upper or lower ranges of a continuous variable to hide outliers by collapsing them into a single code.</li>
                    <li>Provide good documentation of your data in a ReadMe file.</li>
                </ul>

                <p><a href="https://grants.nih.gov/grants/policy/data_sharing/data_sharing_guidance.htm#hs">NIH states</a> that
                "researchers should consider removing indirect identifiers and other information that could lead to 
                'deductive disclosure' of participants identities. 
                Deductive disclosure of individual subjects becomes more likely when there are unusual characteristics or 
                the joint occurrence of several unusual variables. Samples drawn from small geographic areas, 
                rare populations, 
                and linked datasets can present particular challenges to the protection of subjects' identities."</p>

                <h2>README File</h2>
                <p>All data in Dryad should be well documented. Variables and their allowable values should be defined.
                If you have masked your data, removed variables, or otherwise altered your dataset to de-identify it,
                it is best practice to include this information in your README file.
                See <a href="http://datadryad.org/pages/readme">Dryad’s guidance on README files</a> for more information.</p>


                <table id="hsd_identifiers cellspacing="0" width="100%">">
                    <tr><th>DIRECT IDENTIFIERS (none allowed)</th></tr>
                    <tr><td>Name</td></tr>
                    <tr><td>Initials</td></tr>
                    <tr><td>Address, including full or partial postal code</td></tr>
                    <tr><td>Telephone or fax numbers or contact information</td></tr>
                    <tr><td>Electronic mail addresses</td></tr>
                    <tr><td>Unique identifying numbers (e.g., social security number, student ID)</td></tr>
                    <tr><td>Vehicle identifiers</td></tr>
                    <tr><td>Medical device identifiers</td></tr>
                    <tr><td>Web or internet protocol addresses</td></tr>
                    <tr><td>Biometric data</td></tr>
                    <tr><td>Facial photograph or comparable image (fMRI data must have facial structures removed through tools such as pydeface or mri_deface)</td></tr>
                    <tr><td>Audiotapes of participants’ voices</td></tr>
                    <tr><td>Names of relatives</td></tr>
                    <tr><td>Dates related to an individual (e.g., date of birth, date of doctor visit, date of interview)</td></tr>
                </table>

            </div>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>
